Dental Arches and Divisions
Dental Arches:
Maxillary Arch:** This refers to the upper jaw, which is fixed in place and supports the upper teeth.
It plays a crucial role in the alignment and function of the dental structures, occlusion, and overall facial symmetry.
Mandibular Arch:** This is the lower jaw that is movable,
allowing for various functions such as chewing, speaking, and facial
expressions.
The mobility of the mandibular arch is essential for proper articulation of sounds and efficient mastication of food.
Quadrants and Sextants:
Quadrants:** The dental arches can be divided into four quadrants, which include:
1.
Maxillary Right Quadrant
2.
Maxillary Left Quadrant
3.
Mandibular Right Quadrant
4.
Mandibular Left Quadrant
Each quadrant contains a specific set of teeth, typically including incisors, canines, premolars, and molars.
Sextants:** For a more detailed subdivision, the dental arches are also divided into six sextants.
This division typically includes:
1.
Anterior Maxillary Sextant (front upper teeth
2.
Posterior Maxillary Sextant (back upper teeth
3.
Anterior Mandibular Sextant (front lower teeth
4.
Posterior Mandibular Sextant (back lower teeth